---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.14'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.14

RuyiSDK 0.14 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.14.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.14.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.14.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* An plugin architecture is officially introduced into `ruyi`: profile-related
  handling for `ruyi` virtual environments are now entirely taken care of by
  plugins.
* Unpacking of Debian package archives -- `*.deb` files is now supported.
* Improved handling of "pre-release versions" again: previously `ruyi` will
  mistreat versions that contain non-digit character(s) in their suffixes.
  The bug has not had a chance to trigger with the current content of RuyiSDK
  repository though.
* Fixed `pygit2` build failure on riscv64 Python 3.12: previously one would
  have to manually intervene after `pygit2` started to build, but before it
  tried to invoke `setup.py` inside its virtual environment, by installing
  `setuptools` inside the venv -- the package is no longer automatically
  installed in venvs from Python 3.12 on.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* The architecture simulator Box64 built from upstream sources is added:
  `emulator/box64-upstream`.
* The office suite `extra/wps-office` is added.
  Attention: due to its commercial nature, you will have to accept an EULA
  on the first use of the software.
* You can now run WPS Office on your RISC-V desktop with the help of Box64.
  Please follow the guide available via `ruyi news` for trying out.

Please run `ruyi update` to pull in the update after upgrading the RuyiSDK
package manager.

To support devices that require manual intervention during provisioning, and
whose images have to be downloaded manually, the RuyiSDK Device Provisioner is
now being refactored into a plugin-based architecture. However in this
development cycle we had to prioritize the Box64 & WPS Office PoC work;
we still expect to finish the device provisioner refactoring in a future
release. Older versions of the device provisioner will
stop working at that time; please upgrade before you test.
