---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.20'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.20

RuyiSDK 0.20 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.20.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.20.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.20.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Fixed an issue where `ruyi self uninstall --purge` would leave telemetry data behind.
* Fixed a bug where `ruyi admin` subcommands could not be invoked.
* Fixed forwarding to commands without target tuple prefixes (such as a series of LLVM tools) in Ruyi virtual environments.
* Removed the Starlark sandbox from the plugin mechanism at the request of the RuyiSDK project. This helps simplify packaging and lower development barriers: according to RuyiSDK's current threat model, the sandbox mechanism does not provide additional security.

Note: Due to subtle semantic differences between Starlark and Python, after upgrading to ruyi 0.20.0, you must update your software repository to the latest with `ruyi update` in order to continue using certain features of `ruyi` (such as `ruyi venv`). Apart from this, we don't expect the technical changes to the plugin mechanism to affect actual usage.

Note: We may implement the RuyiSDK telemetry mechanism in the next one to two versions. At that time, you can decide whether to actively upload this anonymous statistical information to help the RuyiSDK team improve the product. You can also choose to delete previous telemetry data and disable telemetry. You can use `ruyi self clean --telemetry` to delete all telemetry information, including device information.
