---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.22'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.22

RuyiSDK 0.22 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.22.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.22.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.22.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Added the [RuyiSDK platform support documentation](https://ruyisdk.org/docs/Other/platform-support), and based on this, improved the platform compatibility of the RuyiSDK package manager:
    * Lowered the minimum Python version requirement to 3.10 to maintain compatibility with the default Python version in Ubuntu 22.04 LTS.
    * Reduced version requirements for various Python dependencies to work with packages provided by Ubuntu 22.04 LTS.
    * Added the declaration of the `ruyi` entry point according to Python packaging standards, allowing distribution packaging mechanisms to automatically recognize and process it.

**Note:** We will add the functionality to upload RuyiSDK telemetry data in RuyiSDK 0.23, and may enable it by default in CI environments. At that time, you can decide whether to actively upload this anonymous statistical information to help the RuyiSDK team improve the product. You can also choose to delete previous telemetry data and disable telemetry. You can use `ruyi self clean --telemetry` to delete all telemetry information, including device information.
