---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.23'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.23

RuyiSDK 0.23 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.23.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.23.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.23.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Due to project acceptance requirements, the default telemetry mode has been changed to `on`. Subsequently, anonymized usage statistics will be periodically uploaded with updates to the RuyiSDK software repository. The telemetry server is located in mainland China and is managed by the RuyiSDK team.
* Fixed compatibility with the external dependency `semver` 2.x version.
* Allowed running `ruyi` as `root` in CI environments.
* Each release now comes with reproducible source packages, which is helpful for distribution packaging work.

**Note:** Due to metrics such as the number of active users being project KPIs, RuyiSDK 0.23 has added the functionality to upload telemetry data, which is **enabled by default in all environments**, not just CI. You can decide whether to actively upload this anonymous statistical information to help the RuyiSDK team improve the product. You can also choose to delete previous telemetry data or disable telemetry. You can use `ruyi self clean --telemetry` to delete all telemetry information, including device information.

When telemetry mode is set to `on`, you will be notified when your telemetry data will be uploaded each time `ruyi` is called. You can do one of the following to suppress this prompt:

* Set the telemetry mode to `local` or `off`;
* Consent to data upload behavior.

Here is an example of the `ruyi` configuration file. This configuration file is typically located at `~/.config/ruyi/config.toml`. If it doesn't exist, you can create it:

```toml
# Include one of the following in the [telemetry] section. If this section doesn't exist, create it:
[telemetry]

# You can change the telemetry mode to local or off:
mode = "local"

# Or inform ruyi that you have given consent at the current date and time:
upload_consent = 2024-12-32T25:61:00+08:00
# This date format is not valid, this is intentional. Please fill in the current time of your operation. For example, execute the following command:
#
#     echo "upload_consent = $(date -Iseconds)"
#
# The output can be used for the above purpose.
```
