---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.21'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.21

RuyiSDK 0.21 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.21.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.21.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.21.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Renamed the RuyiSDK software repository packaging helper command `ruyi admin manifest` to `ruyi admin checksum`. If you are packaging for RuyiSDK, you may need to update your scripts.
* Added support for `ruyi self clean` to delete news reading status (`ruyi news`): `ruyi self clean --news-read-status`.
* Added support for `ruyi self clean` to delete all variable state files generated by `ruyi` at once: `ruyi self clean --all`.
* Fixed compatibility of `ruyi` test cases with Python 3.11. We now ensure through CI that `ruyi` passes tests on Python 3.11, 3.12, and 3.13, which will help ensure compatibility across various Linux distributions.
* Added a missing declaration of the `typing_extensions` dependency to fix third-party packaging.
* Refactored the way `ruyi` subcommands are declared and implemented, making it more convenient to extend `ruyi` command-line functionality in the future.

Note: We may implement the RuyiSDK telemetry mechanism in the next one to two versions. At that time, you can decide whether to actively upload this anonymous statistical information to help the RuyiSDK team improve the product. You can also choose to delete previous telemetry data and disable telemetry. You can use `ruyi self clean --telemetry` to delete all telemetry information, including device information.
