---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.18'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.18

RuyiSDK 0.18 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.18.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.18.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.18.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Further improved the fix for [issue #181](https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/issues/181): While the previous fix addressed the missing characters in code blocks, it inadvertently caused Markdown list items and block quotes exceeding one line in length to be truncated.
* Addressed [issue #193](https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/issues/193): Removed dependency on the third-party library `python-frontmatter` to facilitate packaging work for distributions.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* Updated WPS Office to the latest upstream version.
* Updated the RV64ILP32 bare-metal toolchain `toolchain/gnu-plct-rv64ilp32-elf` to the current latest version.
* Enhanced support for Milk-V Duo:
    * Added the Milk-V Duo official example code repository `source/milkv-duo-examples`. You can extract it in a new directory using the `ruyi extract` command.
    * Added Milk-V official host toolchains for Milk-V Duo. Note: These are repackaged by RuyiSDK from [the upstream repository](https://github.com/milkv-duo/host-tools) under permission from the vendor, and upstream only provides binaries for the `x86_64` architecture:
        * `toolchain/gnu-milkv-milkv-duo-bin`: For Linux glibc environments.
        * `toolchain/gnu-milkv-milkv-duo-elf-bin`: For bare-metal environments.
        * `toolchain/gnu-milkv-milkv-duo-musl-bin`: For Linux musl environments.
    * Updated the Milk-V Duo official system image packages to the latest upstream version. RuyiSDK has repackaged these images under permission from the vendor, so that all system images distributed through RuyiSDK channels can be logged in with the username and password `ruyisdk` for your convenience.
