---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.15'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.15

RuyiSDK 0.15 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.15.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.15.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.15.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

*   Getting prepared for multi-language support: in cases localized content
    is requested, such as manual download instructions for software packages,
    `ruyi` will now try to choose an appropriate locale if your system locale
    does not exactly match one of the available locales for the given content.

    > For example: if you configure your system locale as Singaporean English
    > (`en_SG`), but one piece of content is only available in U.S. English
    > (`en_US`) and China Mainland Chinese (`zh_CN`), then in this case `ruyi`
    > 0.15.0 will show you the `en_US` version instead of crash.

*   `ruyi` can now be built without a Docker dependency, for distribution
    packagers' convenience, and for those users wanting to try out `ruyi` but
    are not running officially supported architecture and/or OS.

    > Please note that as the majority of official RuyiSDK Software Repository
    > packages are distributed in binary form, users who want to run `ruyi`
    > on non-officially-supported systems have to get organized, and maintain
    > their own software repository. The RuyiSDK team cannot guarantee user
    > experience under such circumstance.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* The repository layout is no longer compatible with `ruyi` 0.7.0 or lower;
  such users should upgrade right now.
* Version 0.3.0 of `emulator/box64-upstream` is now packaged.
* The guide for running WPS Office with Box64 has been revised.
* The Ruyi Device Provisioner (`ruyi device provision`) now supports the following device model and system:
    * Canaan Kendryte K230D: CanMV Linux SDK image packaged by RuyiSDK with permission, with demo programs, available in two ABIs -- LP64 and RV64ILP32.
