---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.25'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.25

RuyiSDK 0.25 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.25.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.25.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.25.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Added the `ruyi config` subcommand, making it easier for users to query and modify RuyiSDK package manager configurations via command line or script. This command's usage was inspired by `git config`, see `ruyi config --help` output for details.
* Added the `ruyi telemetry` subcommand, making it easier for users to query and change telemetry preferences via command line or script. See `ruyi telemetry --help` output for details.
    * Specifically: Before expressing your telemetry preferences, you will receive a reminder every time you run `ruyi`. You can now turn off telemetry data collection with `ruyi telemetry off` or explicitly accept telemetry data collection and upload with `ruyi telemetry consent`.
* Fixed an issue with Debian package extraction when used with arpy 1.x.
* Added two specification documents: RuyiSDK official software source package version specification, and RuyiSDK board model and system image naming specification. You can read these in the `docs/` directory of the RuyiSDK package manager repository.
