---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.33'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.33

RuyiSDK 0.33 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.33.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.33.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.33.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Migrated the device provisioner's data source to the entity database, to reduce maintenance costs and avoid potential merge conflicts in case of frequent updates.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* Improved device support:
    * Added support for the 16GB RAM model of Milk-V Meles, with RevyOS.
* Entity database updates:
    * Device entity definition update: device model variants have now been split into a separate entity type `device-variant`.
    * Added a new "applicable system for device" informational entity `image-combo`.
* Support for legacy versions of the device provisioner is now deprecated. Please update your RuyiSDK package manager as soon as possible. The support will be removed in RuyiSDK 0.35.

## Server-side Components

* Added an API for reading news items from the official software repository.
* Added an API for querying RuyiSDK release notes by version tag.
* Extended download statistics coverage to all subdirectories under the current directory structure of the official software repository.
* Improved the build process of service containers.
