---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.29'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.29

RuyiSDK 0.29 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.29.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.29.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.29.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Fixed the porcelain mode support for the `ruyi news list` command.
* Added porcelain mode support for the `ruyi news read` command, with the return format matching that of `ruyi news list`.
* Repository format updates:
    * No longer supports global configurations and package descriptions in JSON format. The official RuyiSDK repository has been migrated since version 0.18 and is not expected to be affected by this change. If you have not yet upgraded your `ruyi` version, it is recommended that you reinstall `ruyi` and recreate your virtual environments (if any).
    * An optional `upstream_version` field is allowed in package manifests, which is used to record the corresponding upstream version for that version. Since the RuyiSDK repository uses semantic versioning, some form of mapping is often required for upstream versioning schemes that do not conform to semantic versioning; this field helps tools in the RuyiSDK ecosystem understand such mapping relationships.
    * Made backward-compatible provisions for future support of package-level shared metadata.
