---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.42'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.42

RuyiSDK 0.42 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.42.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/ruyi/0.42.0/): `pip install ruyi`
* <https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.42.0>
* <https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.42.0/>

> [!NOTE]
> RISC-V users can install `ruyi` using `pip`, but since some Python libraries
> depended on by `ruyi` do not yet provide pre-compiled packages for the RISC-V
> architecture on PyPI, the Python package manager will attempt to compile and
> install these dependencies from source code when installing `ruyi`, which may
> be very time-consuming or fail to compile.
>
> If you encounter problems installing `ruyi` on a RISC-V device, it is recommended
> to use other installation methods.

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Default telemetry mode is now changed to `local` -- collecting data but not automatically uploading.
    * Accordingly, when running `ruyi` for the first time in the terminal interface, `ruyi` will ask for your data collection preference and help you write it to the user configuration file.
* `ruyi extract` command default behavior changes and other improvements:
    * `ruyi extract` now extracts the requested package content into a separate directory named after the package name and version. Previously, it would extract directly to the current working directory, which could clutter the user's directory if the user did not read the documentation in advance. If the previous behavior is still needed, the newly added `--extract-without-subdir` option can be passed.
    * `ruyi extract` now supports the `--dest-dir` or `-d` option to specify a directory other than the current working directory for extraction.
    * `ruyi extract` also adds the `--fetch-only` or `-f` option, consistent with the corresponding option in `ruyi install`.
* Polished command-line user experience:
    * In supported terminals, `ruyi` will highlight important manual operations in bold red style.
    * Before running `ruyi` for the first time, attempting command-line auto-completion will no longer incorrectly print prompt messages.
    * `ruyi install -f`, used to download packages without installing or extracting them, now supports downloading source-type packages.
    * If a user downloads the single-binary distribution of `ruyi` but forgets to rename it to `ruyi`, `ruyi` will remind the user to do so at runtime.
* Fixed some issues:
    * When the value of `repo.local` is an empty string or equal to the default value, it will no longer be judged as a custom software source local path.
    * Fixed an issue where `ruyi update` needed to be run twice to reflect changes after changing `repo.remote` when automatically managing the software source remote branch.
    * `ruyi clean --all` will no longer leave package installation status records.
    * User configuration files are no longer allowed to override configuration items that are not user-facing.
* Updated documentation:
    * Documented the system global search path for the `ruyi` configuration file for reference by packagers, system administrators, etc. Thanks to [@bkmgit] for the contribution!
* Engineering iteration:
    * `ruyi`'s dependency on `packaging` is no longer necessary and will be removed in version 0.43.0. Packagers are requested to update dependency declarations at that time.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* Entity database updates:
    * Profiles used by Ruyi virtual environments are now exposed via the `profile-v1` entity type, such as `profile-v1:generic`.
* Engineering iteration:
    * Fixed some configuration issues with third-party software source mirror addresses. Thanks to [@weilinfox] for the contribution!

[@bkmgit]: https://github.com/bkmgit
[@weilinfox]: https://github.com/weilinfox

## Pre-release testing and known issues

RuyiSDK 0.42.0 has passed our [pre-release tests](https://gitee.com/yunxiangluo/ruyisdk-test/blob/master/20251020/README.md).
Testing was conducted against 0.42.0-alpha.20251013, 0.42.0-beta.20251015, and 0.42.0-beta.20251017, and 0.42.0 is planned to be released based on 0.42.0-beta.20251017.
The following table lists the new unresolved defects in version 0.42.0-beta.20251017:

| Issue | Severity | Notes |
| ----- | -------- | ----- |
| [A large number of old revyos images were deleted #116](https://github.com/ruyisdk/packages-index/issues/116) | Minor | Built-in self-healing; expected to be fixed before 0.43.0 |

Due to the deletion of a large number of historical images by RevyOS, there are inconsistencies between the RevyOS upstream, the operating system support matrix, and the Ruyi package manager software repository.
The fix details have been confirmed and are scheduled to be implemented before version 0.43.0.

You can also refer to the table below to track the progress of fixing historical legacy issues:

| Issue | Severity | Notes |
| ----- | -------- | ----- |
| [Usage notes regarding fastboot #95](https://github.com/ruyisdk/docs/issues/95) | Major | Filed [new issue](https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyisdk/issues/52) for tracking; planned fix in version 0.43.0 |
| [Usage notes regarding pip installation #96](https://github.com/ruyisdk/docs/issues/96) | Major | Has plans for overall renovation of documentation and concrete schedule |
| [Some packages fail to download #37](https://github.com/ruyisdk/packages-index/issues/37) | Minor | Has follow-up comments; already under fix |
| [BananaPi BPI-F3 eMMC storage variant did not refer to any combo #101](https://github.com/ruyisdk/packages-index/issues/101) | Minor | Built-in self-healing; see updates in issue comments |

These legacy issues do not negatively impact the core functionality of the Ruyi package manager, but may affect user experience, so it is recommended to be aware of them before downloading and updating your Ruyi package manager version.
Issues related to packages-index will mainly affect the `ruyi device provision` function. Please do not use the `BananaPi BPI-F3 (eMMC storage)` image for the `BananaPi BPI-F3` board and the `Armbian for Pine64 Star64` image for the `Pine64 Star64` board. Relevant defects can be resolved via `ruyi update` after they are fixed.
