---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.43'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.43

RuyiSDK 0.43 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.43.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/ruyi/0.43.0/): `pip install ruyi`
* <https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.43.0>
* <https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.43.0/>

> [!NOTE]
> RISC-V users can install `ruyi` using `pip`, but since some Python libraries
> depended on by `ruyi` do not yet provide pre-compiled packages for the RISC-V
> architecture on PyPI, the Python package manager will attempt to compile and
> install these dependencies from source code when installing `ruyi`, which may
> be very time-consuming or fail to compile.
>
> If you encounter problems installing `ruyi` on a RISC-V device, it is recommended
> to use other installation methods.

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Running `ruyi` as `root` is now allowed in container environments, to facilitate usage in controlled scenarios such as CI.
* Metadata such as package name and version number of the used RuyiSDK packages are now recorded in newly created Ruyi virtual environments, for consumption by RuyiSDK ecosystem components such as RuyiSDK IDE.
* Engineering iteration:
    * Added support for Python 3.14 runtime environment.
    * Removed `ruyi`'s dependency on `packaging`. Packagers are requested to update their dependency declarations.
    * Added an integration test framework as a supplement to `ruyi-litester`, helping to continuously ensure that `ruyi`'s functionality is not broken in niche scenarios.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* New package:
    * `source/riscv-gnu-toolchain-plct`: Source code repository collection for `toolchain/gnu-plct`.
* New device support:
    * Milk-V Jupiter: Compatible with various Bianbu images.
    * Sipeed LicheePi 3A: Compatible with various Bianbu images.
    * SpacemiT MUSE Book: Compatible with various Bianbu images.
    * SpacemiT MUSE Box: Compatible with various Bianbu images.
    * XiangShan Nanhu Laptop: Compatible with RedleafOS.
* Improved device support:
    * Removed Armbian support for Pine64 Star64: Upstream has stopped maintenance and no longer provides system image downloads.
    * Bianbu Desktop and Bianbu Minimal for various SpacemiT K1 devices: Added images suitable for eMMC storage devices.
    * Added Bianbu Desktop Lite for various SpacemiT K1 devices.

Thanks to [@weilinfox] for the contribution!

[@weilinfox]: https://github.com/weilinfox

## Pre-release testing and known issues

RuyiSDK 0.43.0 has passed our [pre-release tests](https://gitee.com/yunxiangluo/ruyisdk-test/blob/master/20251119/README.md).
Testing was conducted against 0.43.0-beta.20251118, and 0.43.0 is planned to be released based on 0.43.0-beta.20251118.
