---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.44'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.44

RuyiSDK 0.44 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.44.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/ruyi/0.44.0/): `pip install ruyi`
* <https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.44.0>
* <https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.44.0/>

> [!NOTE]
> RISC-V users can install `ruyi` using `pip`, but since some Python libraries
> depended on by `ruyi` do not yet provide pre-compiled packages for the RISC-V
> architecture on PyPI, the Python package manager will attempt to compile and
> install these dependencies from source code when installing `ruyi`, which may
> be very time-consuming or fail to compile.
>
> If you encounter problems installing `ruyi` on a RISC-V device, it is recommended
> to use other installation methods.

> [!NOTE]
> Please note: [It is known][ruyi-pipx] that installing `ruyi` with `pipx` will
> cause subsequently created Ruyi virtual environments to be unusable. This will
> be fixed in the next version. Until then, please do not use `pipx` to install
> `ruyi`.

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Telemetry changes:
    * Fixed the issue where proactive `ruyi telemetry upload` would not work
      when telemetry mode is `local`.
    * For RuyiSDK operational needs, if your telemetry mode is `on` and the
      last upload was at least 7 days ago, `ruyi` will upload telemetry data on
      your next invocation, regardless of the scheduled upload day.
    * For RuyiSDK operational needs, if you chose to disable data collection
      and upload on first run, `ruyi` will still perform a one-time upload
      containing an unsaved random ID and the current `ruyi` version.
      If you do not wish for this upload to happen, please ensure
      `RUYI_TELEMETRY_OPTOUT=1` is set before using `ruyi`.

For low-frequency users of `ruyi`, this update may allow the RuyiSDK team to
observe more specific behavior patterns regarding your installation ID than
before. The RuyiSDK team has not conducted any such data mining so far.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* New device support:
    * Milk-V Megrez: Compatible with RockOS. Thanks to [@weilinfox] for the contribution!
* Improved device support:
    * Renamed the `manual` profile for RV32 (for manual management of compilation flags) to `manual-rv32` to avoid conflict with the RV64 profile of the same name. Thanks to [@Cyl18] for [reporting][issue149]!

[@Cyl18]: https://github.com/Cyl18
[@weilinfox]: https://github.com/weilinfox
[issue149]: https://github.com/ruyisdk/packages-index/issues/149
[ruyi-pipx]: https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/issues/414

## IDE

### VSCode

* RuyiSDK Management:
    * Added automatic RuyiSDK detection: supports one-click installation of missing RuyiSDK.
    * Improved multi-version management: supports managing multiple installation paths and flexible switching between different versions.
* Virtual Environments:
    * Added visual management: supports viewing and operating all virtual environments through a tree view.
    * Added workspace awareness: supports intelligent detection and association of virtual environments based on the current workspace.
* Package Management:
    * Added search functionality: supports quick retrieval and browsing of the RuyiSDK software repository.
    * Optimized installation experience: supports one-click extraction and quick installation of toolchains and emulators.
    * Added version selection: supports manually specifying specific package versions during installation.
    * Improved system integration: added file explorer context menu to support direct extraction of RuyiSDK packages.
* News and Updates:
    * Added news system: supports real-time viewing of official RuyiSDK news and updates.
    * Added offline mode: supports caching news content to ensure readability while offline.
    * Improved status tracking: supports automatic recording and persistence of news read status.

### Eclipse

* Introduce Maven for build process and dependency management; implement CI to enforce DCO (Developer Certificate of Origin) compliance and automate plugin deployment to GitHub Pages.
* Refactor the plugin directory structure and optimize existing documentation.
* Establish code style constraints and conduct a comprehensive review of all code.
* Add and test the "News" and "Venv" modules.
* Menu Bar: Add entry points for the News and Venv modules under the "RuyiSDK" menu.
* Release: Version 0.1.0.

## Pre-release testing and known issues

RuyiSDK 0.44.0 has passed our [pre-release tests](https://gitee.com/yunxiangluo/ruyisdk-test/blob/master/20251222/README.md).
Testing was conducted against 0.44.0-beta.20251219, and 0.44.0 is planned to be released based on 0.44.0-beta.20251219.
