---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.27'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.27

RuyiSDK 0.27 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.27.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.27.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.27.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Added the `ruyi telemetry upload` command. If you are okay with sharing with us your usage data, now in non-persistent environments such as CI builds, you can ensure with the command that telemetry data is uploaded before the task ends and the environment is cleaned up.
* Added support for specifying service levels for software package versions. If a particular version of a software package has known issues, `ruyi` will display a prompt when installing or extracting that version. This information can be maintained by packagers in the software source. In the future, filtering packages by service level will also be supported: it will be possible to skip versions with known issues, or only use verified versions, etc.
* Engineering changes:
    * Added support for pygit2 1.17.0. The one-file distribution of `ruyi` has been switched to this version.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* Updated the following packages:
    * `board-image/buildroot-sdk-milkv-duo`
    * `board-image/buildroot-sdk-milkv-duo256m`
    * `board-image/buildroot-sdk-milkv-duos-sd`
    * `board-image/uboot-revyos-sipeed-lpi4a-16g`
    * `board-image/uboot-revyos-sipeed-lpi4a-8g`
* Fixed issues with some packages being unable to download normally after receiving automated version upgrades.
