---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.36'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.36

RuyiSDK 0.36 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.36.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.36.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/tags/0.36.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* After each `ruyi update`, you will now be informed of which installed packages have newer versions available. Since some projects may require precise toolchain versions, you can choose to update with `ruyi install` and recreate relevant virtual environments as needed.
* You can now uninstall installed packages using `ruyi uninstall`. Shorter aliases `ruyi remove` and `ruyi rm` are also available.
* The `ruyi list` output now shows whether each package's installation files are fully downloaded.
* When both machine-readable output (porcelain mode) and debug output (`RUYI_DEBUG=y`) are enabled, the initial log lines will no longer be output in wrong format.
* Startup performance of the `ruyi` tool has been improved, saving 200-300ms per run (depending on your machine). This paves the way for low-latency command-line completion in the future. A CI lint is also in place to ensure future code changes do not regress this optimization.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* Updated `toolchain/gnu-plct`: The GNU RISC-V toolchain maintained and built by PLCT, now including GNU binutils 2.45 (pre-release snapshot), GCC 15.1.0 and glibc 2.40.
* Updated RISC-V microarchitecture definitions in the entity database, adding:
    * Xiangshan Kunminghu
    * Xuantie C908, C908V, C910V2, C920, C920V2
    * MIPS P8700
    * 8-wide Tenstorrent Ascalon
* Corrected the RISC-V ISA string of Xuantie C910 to the standard form accepted by upstream GCC.
