---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.41'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.41

RuyiSDK 0.41 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.41.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* <https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.41.0>
* <https://pypi.org/project/ruyi/0.41.0/>
* <https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.41.0/>

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* `ruyi update` now prints informational messages before and after accessing the network.
* If running a `ruyi` command triggers repository synchronization, an informational message is printed.
* `ruyi news` (when invoked without a subcommand) now informs you of unread news.
* On the first run of the one-file distribution of `ruyi` in bash or zsh, you will be prompted to configure shell completions.
* The RuyiSDK device provisioner now checks whether the target device file for the `dd` command is currently mounted, and will refuse mounted devices.
* Engineering changes:
    * Reintroduced Python project metadata compatible with Poetry 1.0.7 to facilitate distro packaging.
    * Automated packaging for Debian, deepin, and Ubuntu is now performed for every `ruyi` tag to aid testing.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* New packages:
    * `source/jdk23u`: OpenJDK 23 source.
    * `source/llvm`: LLVM source.
    * `source/llvm-plct`: PLCT-maintained LLVM source with RVP extension support.
    * `source/opencv`: OpenCV source.
    * `source/qemu`: QEMU source.
    * `source/qemu-plct`: PLCT-maintained QEMU source with RVP extension support.
    * `source/v8`: V8 JavaScript engine.
* Package updates:
    * `toolchain/gnu-plct`: PLCT-maintained GNU toolchain, version 0.20250912.0.
    * `toolchain/llvm-plct`: PLCT-maintained LLVM toolchain, version 21.1.0.
    * `toolchain/llvm-upstream`: Upstream LLVM toolchain, version 21.1.1.
* Improved device support:
    * `board-image/freebsd-riscv64-mini-live`: removed unusable legacy versions and added updated ones.
    * `board-image/openbsd-riscv64-live`: removed unusable legacy versions and added updated ones.
    * `board-image/ubuntu-server-riscv64-sifive-unmatched`: removed unusable legacy versions and added updated ones.
    * Added a new `manual` profile to the `ruyi` virtual environment. This profile does not configure any compiler flags on your behalf and is suitable when you need to control `-march`, `-mabi`, or `-mcpu` yourself.
* Engineering changes:
    * Dropped support for `ruyi` 0.33.0 and earlier to reduce maintenance burden.
    * Systematically configured mirror lists for third-party software sources.

Thanks to [@weilinfox] for their contributions!

[@weilinfox]: https://github.com/weilinfox

## Pre-release testing and known issues

RuyiSDK 0.41.0 has passed our [pre-release tests](https://gitee.com/yunxiangluo/ruyisdk-test/blob/master/20250922/README.md).
Testing was conducted against 0.41.0-beta.20250922 and 0.41.0-beta.20250926, and 0.41.0 is planned to be released based on 0.41.0-beta.20250926.
The following defect present in 0.41.0-beta.20250922 was fixed in 0.41.0-beta.20250926:

| Issue | Status | Notes |
| ----- | ------ | ----- |
| [[Feature Request] Provide information prompts when automatically running ruyi update #352](https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/issues/352) | Fixed | Fixed in 0.41.0-beta.20250926 |

This version of RuyiSDK contains some known issues that do not negatively impact core functionality.
Please be aware of the issues and double-check before you upgrade, to avoid potentially degraded user experience or loss.

| Issue | Severity | Notes |
| ----- | -------- | ----- |
| [Usage notes regarding fastboot #95](https://github.com/ruyisdk/docs/issues/95) | Major | Filed [new issue](https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyisdk/issues/52) for tracking; planned fix in version 0.42.0 |
| [Usage notes regarding pip installation #96](https://github.com/ruyisdk/docs/issues/96) | Major | Has plans for overall renovation of documentation and concrete schedule |
| [Some packages fail to download #37](https://github.com/ruyisdk/packages-index/issues/37) | Minor | Has follow-up comments; already under fix |
| [BananaPi BPI-F3 eMMC storage variant did not refer to any combo #101](https://github.com/ruyisdk/packages-index/issues/101) | Minor | Built-in self-healing; see updates in issue comments |

Issues in the packages-index primarily affect the `ruyi device provision` workflow. For now, please avoid the `BananaPi BPI-F3 (eMMC storage)` image for the BananaPi BPI-F3 board and the `Armbian for Pine64 Star64` image for the Pine64 Star64 board. Fixes will be delivered via `ruyi update` when available.
