---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.31'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.31

RuyiSDK 0.31 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.31.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.31.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.31.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* The RuyiSDK device installer now allows you to select a non-default (latest) version when multiple versions of a requested software package are available. This feature can be helpful if your development board requires an older system version.
* Added an experimental mode flag: the environment variable `RUYI_EXPERIMENTAL`, for enabling experimental features for which we do not yet guarantee compatibility.
* Added experimental feature: Entity Database.
    * This feature helps RuyiSDK provide useful information related to your devices. For example, you can now use `ruyi list --related-to-entity device:sipeed-lpi4a` to query various software packages applicable to the Sipeed LicheePi 4A.
    * Initial support includes four entity types: CPU microarchitecture (such as Xiangshan Nanhu, Xuantie C910, etc.), CPU models (such as Xiangshan Nanhu, Xuantie TH1520, etc.), device models (such as Sipeed LicheePi 4A, etc.), and software packages.
    * These features are in preview, and incompatible changes may be made in the future to adapt to requirements, so they are only available when experimental mode is enabled. If you have use cases, please keep your `ruyi` and software repository up to date.
* Engineering changes:
    * To avoid releases being affected by temporary outages of physical CI resources, the RISC-V build tasks have also been temporarily migrated to free public runners provided by GitHub Actions.
    * Upgraded the Python version used to build the one-file `ruyi` distribution to 3.13.2.
