---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.32'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.32

RuyiSDK 0.32 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.32.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.32.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.32.0/

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Project Management

* For compliance, all pull requests to RuyiSDK now require a DCO (Developer Certificate of Origin).

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Added contribution guidelines to make it easier for community members to contribute to the project.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* Improved device support:
    * Added special flashing strategy support for SpacemiT K1 devices.
    * Fixed an issue where the device provisioner failed to call `fastboot`.
    * Updated the Buildroot SDK image for Sipeed LicheeRV Nano.
    * Updated the RevyOS image version for Sipeed LicheePi 4A and fixed issues.
    * Updated the RevyOS image for Milk-V Meles.
* Renamed package `board-image/revyos-sg2042-milkv-pioneer` to `board-image/revyos-milkv-pioneer` to comply with current package naming conventions.
* Entity database updates:
    * Device entity definitions are now on par with the device provisioner's support range. Added device definitions for vendors including Milk-V, Sipeed, Canaan, StarFive, WCH, etc.

## Server-side Components

* Optimized ruyisdk.org's statistics page for performance.
* Integrated download counts from GitHub Releases channel into the RuyiSDK package manager download statistics on the official website, making the statistical data more accurate and comprehensive.
* Migrated the mirror synchronization script which resided in the RuyiSDK package manager repository and required manual set-up to server-side.
