---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.45'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.45

RuyiSDK 0.45 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.45.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/ruyi/0.45.0/): `pip install ruyi`
* https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.45.0
* https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.45.0/

> [!NOTE]
> RISC-V users can install `ruyi` using `pip`, but since some Python libraries
> that `ruyi` depends on do not yet provide precompiled packages for the RISC-V
> architecture on PyPI, the Python package manager will attempt to compile and
> install these dependencies from source code when installing `ruyi`, which may
> be very time-consuming or fail to compile.
>
> If you encounter problems installing `ruyi` on RISC-V devices, it is recommended
> to use other installation methods.

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* `ruyi` installed via `pipx` can now properly create virtual environments.
* The package manager (core component) now supports Simplified Chinese localization.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* Enhanced device support:
    * RevyOS for Milk-V Meles: updated to 20251226.
    * RevyOS for Milk-V Pioneer: updated to 20251226.
    * RevyOS for Sipeed Laptop 4A: updated to 20251226.
    * RevyOS for Sipeed LicheePi 4A: updated to 20251226.
    * RevyOS for Sipeed LicheePi Console 4A: updated to 20251226.
    * Buildroot SDK for Sipeed LicheeRV Nano: updated to 20251230.

Thanks to [@weilinfox] for the contributions!

[@weilinfox]: https://github.com/weilinfox

## IDE

### VSCode

* Now available on [VSCode Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=RuyiSDK.ruyisdk-vscode-extension).
* Refactored virtual environment detection logic.
* Added suggested folder for extract package template feature: one-click selection to extract to current directory or subdirectory.
* Refactored virtual environment functionality.
* Fixed image display issues on VSCode Marketplace.

### Eclipse

* Now renders Markdown for news detail display.
* Added refresh functionality to the virtual environment module.
* Fixed dependency issues with third-party libraries in the news module.
* Virtual environment module now supports automatic detection of projects in the workspace.
* Testing Update Site in preparation for listing on Eclipse Marketplace.

## Version Testing and Known Issues

RuyiSDK 0.45.0 has passed [release testing](https://gitee.com/yunxiangluo/ruyisdk-test/blob/master/20260120/README.md). This version was tested based on the 0.45.0-beta.20260119 test version, and the 0.45.0 release is expected to be based on the 0.45.0-beta.20260119 codebase.
