---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.48'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.48

RuyiSDK 0.48 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.48.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/ruyi/0.48.0/): `pip install ruyi`
* <https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.48.0>
* <https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.48.0/>

> [!NOTE]
> RISC-V users can install `ruyi` using `pip`, but since some Python libraries
> that `ruyi` depends on do not yet provide precompiled packages for the RISC-V
> architecture on PyPI, the Python package manager will attempt to compile and
> install these dependencies from source code when installing `ruyi`, which may
> be very time-consuming or fail to compile.
>
> If you encounter problems installing `ruyi` on RISC-V devices, it is recommended
> to use other installation methods.

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Introduced the first build recipe workflow in the package manager:
    * Added the `ruyi admin build-package` subcommand.
    * Added the build recipe executor, marker loader, and related pluginhost APIs and load schemes for recipe execution.
    * Added the initial `build-recipe-v1` capability gating for plugins.
* Continued hardening the pluginhost so plugin code stays within a narrower, more portable subset:
    * Added gating for language features such as decorators, type annotations, f-strings, generator expressions, `del`, matrix multiplication, chained comparisons, positional-only parameters, `while` loops, slice expressions, starred assignment targets, and the `is` / `is not` operators.
    * Improved gate diagnostics and refreshed the pluginhost threat-model documentation.
* Prepared a repository-format change for packagers by renaming the `manifests` directory to `packages`.
* Added directory-based sysroot source options for virtual-environment creation.
* Engineering iteration:
    * Updated distribution images and dependency baselines, including the move to Ubuntu 24.04 LTS.
    * Dropped Ubuntu 22.04 and Python 3.10 support.
    * Refreshed dependency metadata and made CI image-builder home-directory handling more robust.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* Improved device support:
    * Milk-V Duo: specified the `xthead` quirk in the device profile. Thanks to [@weilinfox] for the contribution!

[@weilinfox]: https://github.com/weilinfox

## IDE

### VSCode

* feat: add build system
* feat(welcome): add user onboarding and RuyiSDK forum
* refactor(setup): refactor package manager installation and upgrade frontend
* fix(setup): fix incorrect upgrade prompt shown by older package manager
* fix(venv): fix empty sysroot issue

### Eclipse

* Refactor the logic of exception handling; clean redundant code lines; continue to optimize code style.
* Feature: the `ruyi provision` environment has been built into the plugin.
* Feature: Package Explorer has been redesigned.
* Feature: virtual environments in open projects will be auto-detected.

## Version Testing and Known Issues

RuyiSDK 0.48.0 has passed [release testing](https://gitee.com/yunxiangluo/ruyisdk-test/blob/master/20260423/README.md). This version was tested based on the 0.48.0-beta.20260423 test version, and the 0.48.0 release is expected to be based on the 0.48.0-beta.20260423 codebase.
