---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.46'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.46

RuyiSDK 0.46 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.46.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/ruyi/0.46.0/): `pip install ruyi`
* <https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.46.0>
* <https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.46.0/>

> [!NOTE]
> RISC-V users can install `ruyi` using `pip`, but since some Python libraries
> that `ruyi` depends on do not yet provide precompiled packages for the RISC-V
> architecture on PyPI, the Python package manager will attempt to compile and
> install these dependencies from source code when installing `ruyi`, which may
> be very time-consuming or fail to compile.
>
> If you encounter problems installing `ruyi` on RISC-V devices, it is recommended
> to use other installation methods.

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Improved the plugin architecture, which now enables package manager plugins to localize their strings:
    * Added `RUYI.has_feature()` for probing whether a specific feature is supported by the current runtime environment. To support older versions of the RuyiSDK package manager, you should first check whether the method exists with `hasattr(RUYI, "has_feature")` before using it (otherwise your plugin will crash); if the method does not exist, the feature you are probing for is certainly not supported.
    * Added the `i18n-v1` feature, corresponding to the new `RUYI.i18n` interface:
        * `RUYI.i18n.locale: str` is the current locale of the runtime environment;
        * `RUYI.i18n.msg(msgid: str, locale: str | None = None) -> str | None`
          queries the message string for the given ID and locale (defaulting to the current locale) from the current software repository's `messages.toml`. It is currently recommended to use the `format()` method for variable interpolation (i.e. formatting) with the returned strings.
* You can now find us with more keywords on PyPI.
* Engineering iteration:
    * Implemented preliminary security hardening measures for CI task execution environments, including initial network traffic auditing, to prevent CI-related supply chain attacks.

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* Added complete Simplified Chinese support for plugins used by the RuyiSDK device provisioner.
* Updated package:
    * `toolchain/gnu-upstream`: GNU toolchain built by RuyiSDK from upstream sources, version 0.20260201.0. Includes GNU binutils 2.45, GCC 15.2.0 and glibc 2.43.
* Enhanced device support:
    * Buildroot SDK for Sipeed LicheeRV Nano: updated to 20260114. Thanks to [@smullllu] for the contribution!

[@smullllu]: https://github.com/smullllu

## IDE

### VSCode


### Eclipse

- Published on Eclipse Marketplace and updated documentation: <https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/ruyisdk>.
- Fixed incorrect button states in the Ruyi installation wizard.
- Updated third-party library and Maven plugin dependencies, requiring a build environment of Linux Java 21+.

## Version Testing and Known Issues

RuyiSDK 0.46.0 has passed [release testing](https://gitee.com/yunxiangluo/ruyisdk-test/blob/master/20260207/README.md). This version was tested based on the 0.46.0-beta.20260206 test version, and the 0.46.0 release is expected to be based on the 0.46.0-beta.20260206 codebase.
