---
title: 'Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.49'
---

# Release notes for RuyiSDK 0.49

RuyiSDK 0.49 is now released. The corresponding package manager version is also 0.49.0.
You can download the RuyiSDK package manager from one of the following locations:

* [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/ruyi/0.49.0/): `pip install ruyi`
* <https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.49.0>
* <https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.49.0/>

> [!NOTE]
> RISC-V users can install `ruyi` using `pip`, but since some Python libraries
> that `ruyi` depends on do not yet provide precompiled packages for the RISC-V
> architecture on PyPI, the Python package manager will attempt to compile and
> install these dependencies from source code when installing `ruyi`, which may
> be very time-consuming or fail to compile.
>
> If you encounter problems installing `ruyi` on RISC-V devices, it is recommended
> to use other installation methods.

This update mainly consists of the following changes. Happy hacking!

## RuyiSDK Package Manager

* Added machine-readable output, also known as porcelain mode, for `ruyi repo list`. Thanks to [@sisungo] for the contribution!
* Added the `ruyi admin check` command for RuyiSDK first-party and third-party software repository maintainers to perform quality checks on software repositories.
* Fixed a minor issue where `ruyi extract` reported that it had extracted to `None` after extracting into the current working directory.
* Fixed several undesirable interactions among the `ruyi` first-run prompt, telemetry, and command-line completion.
* Invocations of `ruyi version` are no longer treated as the first run of `ruyi`, helping avoid unexpected output in certain scenarios.
* Added the `--project-sysroot-from-rootfs` option to `ruyi venv`, which directly "projects" the parts needed for cross-compilation from a distribution chroot/rootfs directory into the newly created virtual environment. This avoids copying the whole directory and running into permission issues involving files or directories such as `/etc` and `/root`.
* Engineering iteration:
    * Updated dependency versions.

[@sisungo]: https://github.com/sisungo

## RuyiSDK Software Repository

* Updated the following software to the latest versions:
    * `emulator/qemu-system-riscv-upstream`: updated to 11.0.0-ruyi.20260421, with RVA23 support.
    * `emulator/qemu-user-riscv-upstream`: updated to 11.0.0-ruyi.20260421, with RVA23 support.

## IDE

### VSCode

- Added i18n
- Added Chinese translation
- Added extra package selector for virtual environment sysroot
- Redesigned the news page, adding Chinese and English translations and animation
- Fixed CMake error detection for one-click build
- Added board documentation entry point on the RuyiSDK Home page

### Eclipse

- Package manager module: fixed device list sorting.
- ruyi: added necessary environment variables.
- Virtual environments: support creating or applying a virtual environment by right-clicking a project in the Project view.
- Virtual environments: allow users to select an opened project instead of entering a path during creation, reducing confusion.
- Virtual environments: display the project name and the virtual environment's relative path in the list.
- Project: released v0.1.4.

## Version Testing and Known Issues

RuyiSDK 0.49.0 has passed [release testing](https://gitee.com/yunxiangluo/ruyisdk-test/blob/master/20260520/README.md). This version was tested based on the 0.49.0-beta.20260519 test version, and the 0.49.0 release is expected to be based on the 0.49.0-beta.20260519 codebase.
